README.md, before:

# Blood Pact

A hardcore death tracker addon for **Turtle WoW** (WoW 1.12). Record every permadeath, form Blood Pacts with other hardcore players, and share your deaths across the group in real time.

---

## Features

- **Automatic death detection** — combat log and `PLAYER_DEAD` event state machine captures kills, including attacker name, level, zone, and sub-zone
- **Rich death records** — stores character name, level, class, race, total XP, gold lost, rare+ items lost, killer info, and timestamps
- **Personal timeline** — scrollable history of every death across all your characters, filterable per character
- **Blood Pact groups** — create a shared pact with an 8-character join code; friends join with `/bloodpact join <code>`
- **Pact sync** — deaths broadcast over GUILD/RAID/PARTY channels to all online pact members; offline members receive a catch-up sync on login
- **Pact dashboard** — aggregate stats (total deaths, member count, highest level reached, gold lost) and member roster with alive/deceased status
- **Pact timeline** — unified scrollable history of all member deaths with per-player color coding
- **PFUI compatible** — detects pfUI and uses its fonts/styles; falls back gracefully to default WoW UI if pfUI is absent
- **Manual hardcore flag** — for players without the "Still Alive" title detection, a manual checkbox is provided in Settings

---

## Requirements

- **Turtle WoW** client (WoW 1.12.1 / Interface 11200)
- Optional: [pfUI](https://github.com/shagu/pfUI) for styled fonts and backdrops

---

## Installation

1. Copy the `BloodPact/` folder into your addons directory:
   ```
   TurtleWoW\Interface\AddOns\BloodPact\
   ```
2. Launch the game and enable **Blood Pact** in the AddOns list on the character select screen.

### Deploy Script (Windows)

If you have the repository cloned, run from the project root:
```powershell
.\deploy.ps1
```
This copies `BloodPact/` directly to `C:\Users\<you>\Games\TurtleWoW\Interface\AddOns\BloodPact`.

---

## Slash Commands

| Command | Description |
|---|---|
| `/bloodpact` | Open the Blood Pact window |
| `/bloodpact show` | Open the window |
| `/bloodpact hide` | Close the window |
| `/bloodpact toggle` | Toggle window visibility |
| `/bloodpact create <name>` | Create a new Blood Pact with the given name |
| `/bloodpact join <code>` | Join a Blood Pact using an 8-character code |
| `/bloodpact wipe` | Show wipe confirmation prompt |
| `/bloodpact wipe confirm` | Permanently delete all death records (account ID and pact membership are preserved) |
| `/bloodpact help` | Show command list |
| `/bp` | Shortcut for `/bloodpact` |

---

## How It Works

### Death Detection

Deaths are detected through a two-signal state machine:

1. **SUSPECTED** — A `CHAT_MSG_COMBAT_HOSTILE_DEATH` message containing the player's name is seen, or `PLAYER_DEAD` fires directly (environmental death).
2. **COLLECTING** — `PLAYER_DEAD` confirms the death within a 3-second window; character state is captured (level, XP, gold, inventory, location).
3. **COMPLETE** — The death record is saved locally and broadcast to any online pact members.

The last 5 attackers seen in the combat log are tracked in a ring buffer so the killer is known even if the death message doesn't name them directly.

### Blood Pacts

- One player creates a pact with `/bloodpact create <name>`. A random 8-character alphanumeric join code is generated.
- Other players join with `/bloodpact join <code>`. The addon sends a join request over all available channels; any online pact member responds with the current member roster.
- Deaths are broadcast as addon messages (prefix `BLDPCT`) over GUILD, RAID, or PARTY channels, whichever are active. Messages larger than 200 bytes are chunked automatically.
- On login, if you are in a pact, a sync request is sent after 5 seconds to catch up on any deaths that happened while you were offline.

### Data Storage

All data is stored in the **account-wide** `BloodPactAccountDB` SavedVariable:

```
BloodPactAccountDB
├── accountID           -- stable identifier derived from first character name
├── accountCreatedTimestamp
├── schemaVersion
├── config
│   ├── manualHardcoreFlag
│   └── windowPosition  {x, y}
├── deaths              -- keyed by character name, array of death records (max 25 each)
└── pact
    ├── pactName
    ├── joinCode
    ├── ownerAccountID
    ├── members         -- keyed by accountID
    └── memberDeaths    -- synced deaths from other pact members
```

Death records are capped at **25 per character** (oldest pruned first).

---

## UI Overview

The main window has three tabs:

**Personal** — Your own characters' death stats. Shows total deaths, highest level reached, total gold lost, and total XP lost across all characters. Below that, a character list with a "Timeline" button for each. The timeline shows every death with full detail.

**Pact** — Pact-level aggregate stats and the member roster. Each member shows their alive/deceased status, highest level, and death count. A "Pact Timeline" button opens a unified view of all member deaths, filterable by member.

**Settings** — Your account ID and creation date, the manual hardcore flag toggle, pact creation/join shortcuts, and a data wipe button.

---

## Technical Notes

- Built for **WoW 1.12 API** (no `C_Timer`, no `...` varargs in event handlers, `table.getn()` throughout)
- Event handler arguments use `arg1`–`arg9` globals
- Addon message prefix: `BLDPCT` (6 characters)
- All timers use `OnUpdate` accumulators
- Serialization is pipe-delimited fixed-field encoding with escape sequences for special characters

---

## Version

**1.0.0** — Initial release. Export to JSON is not yet implemented.

Commit message:

Add sync command to BloodPact for manual synchronization with pact members. Update README to include new command details. Enhance death data management by ensuring dead characters are removed from the living roster. Improve join response handling to refresh UI for new members in the pact.

README.md, after:

# Blood Pact

A hardcore death tracker addon for **Turtle WoW** (WoW 1.12). Record every permadeath, form Blood Pacts with other hardcore players, and share your deaths across the group in real time.

---

## Features

- **Automatic death detection** — combat log and `PLAYER_DEAD` event state machine captures kills, including attacker name, level, zone, and sub-zone
- **Rich death records** — stores character name, level, class, race, total XP, gold lost, rare+ items lost, killer info, and timestamps
- **Personal timeline** — scrollable history of every death across all your characters, filterable per character
- **Blood Pact groups** — create a shared pact with an 8-character join code; friends join with `/bloodpact join <code>`
- **Pact sync** — deaths broadcast over GUILD/RAID/PARTY channels to all online pact members; offline members receive a catch-up sync on login
- **Pact dashboard** — aggregate stats (total deaths, member count, highest level reached, gold lost) and member roster with alive/deceased status
- **Pact timeline** — unified scrollable history of all member deaths with per-player color coding
- **PFUI compatible** — detects pfUI and uses its fonts/styles; falls back gracefully to default WoW UI if pfUI is absent
- **Manual hardcore flag** — for players without the "Still Alive" title detection, a manual checkbox is provided in Settings

---

## Requirements

- **Turtle WoW** client (WoW 1.12.1 / Interface 11200)
- Optional: [pfUI](https://github.com/shagu/pfUI) for styled fonts and backdrops

---

## Installation

1. Copy the `BloodPact/` folder into your addons directory:
   ```
   TurtleWoW\Interface\AddOns\BloodPact\
   ```
2. Launch the game and enable **Blood Pact** in the AddOns list on the character select screen.

### Deploy Script (Windows)

If you have the repository cloned, run from the project root:
```powershell
.\deploy.ps1
```
This copies `BloodPact/` directly to `C:\Users\<you>\Games\TurtleWoW\Interface\AddOns\BloodPact`.

---

## Slash Commands

| Command | Description |
|---|---|
| `/bloodpact` | Open the Blood Pact window |
| `/bloodpact show` | Open the window |
| `/bloodpact hide` | Close the window |
| `/bloodpact toggle` | Toggle window visibility |
| `/bloodpact create <name>` | Create a new Blood Pact with the given name |
| `/bloodpact join <code>` | Join a Blood Pact using an 8-character code |
| `/bloodpact sync` | Manually sync with pact members (if roster is missing) |
| `/bloodpact wipe` | Show wipe confirmation prompt |
| `/bloodpact wipe confirm` | Permanently delete all death records (account ID and pact membership are preserved) |
| `/bloodpact help` | Show command list |
| `/bp` | Shortcut for `/bloodpact` |

---

## How It Works

### Death Detection

Deaths are detected through a two-signal state machine:

1. **SUSPECTED** — A `CHAT_MSG_COMBAT_HOSTILE_DEATH` message containing the player's name is seen, or `PLAYER_DEAD` fires directly (environmental death).
2. **COLLECTING** — `PLAYER_DEAD` confirms the death within a 3-second window; character state is captured (level, XP, gold, inventory, location).
3. **COMPLETE** — The death record is saved locally and broadcast to any online pact members.

The last 5 attackers seen in the combat log are tracked in a ring buffer so the killer is known even if the death message doesn't name them directly.

### Blood Pacts

- One player creates a pact with `/bloodpact create <name>`. A random 8-character alphanumeric join code is generated.
- Other players join with `/bloodpact join <code>`. The addon sends a join request over all available channels; any online pact member responds with the current member roster.
- Deaths are broadcast as addon messages (prefix `BLDPCT`) over GUILD, RAID, or PARTY channels, whichever are active. Messages larger than 200 bytes are chunked automatically.
- On login, if you are in a pact, a sync request is sent after 5 seconds to catch up on any deaths that happened while you were offline.

### Data Storage

All data is stored in the **account-wide** `BloodPactAccountDB` SavedVariable:

```
BloodPactAccountDB
├── accountID           -- stable identifier derived from first character name
├── accountCreatedTimestamp
├── schemaVersion
├── config
│   ├── manualHardcoreFlag
│   └── windowPosition  {x, y}
├── deaths              -- keyed by character name, array of death records (max 25 each)
└── pact
    ├── pactName
    ├── joinCode
    ├── ownerAccountID
    ├── members         -- keyed by accountID
    └── memberDeaths    -- synced deaths from other pact members
```

Death records are capped at **25 per character** (oldest pruned first).

---

## UI Overview

The main window has three tabs:

**Personal** — Your own characters' death stats. Shows total deaths, highest level reached, total gold lost, and total XP lost across all characters. Below that, a character list with a "Timeline" button for each. The timeline shows every death with full detail.

**Pact** — Pact-level aggregate stats and the member roster. Each member shows their alive/deceased status, highest level, and death count. A "Pact Timeline" button opens a unified view of all member deaths, filterable by member.

**Settings** — Your account ID and creation date, the manual hardcore flag toggle, pact creation/join shortcuts, and a data wipe button.

---

## Technical Notes

- Built for **WoW 1.12 API** (no `C_Timer`, no `...` varargs in event handlers, `table.getn()` throughout)
- Event handler arguments use `arg1`–`arg9` globals
- Addon message prefix: `BLDPCT` (6 characters)
- All timers use `OnUpdate` accumulators
- Serialization is pipe-delimited fixed-field encoding with escape sequences for special characters

---

## Version

**1.0.0** — Initial release. Export to JSON is not yet implemented.
